This repository has all the files necessary to compile the .tex file by LATEX.

The main idea of this research work is in the pdf file below. This pdf file was generated by compiling the .tex file by pdflatex ($ pdflatex ./PermutationsCombinationsWhyWholeNumber.tex). **Please note** the file below has **not been peer-reviewed** and must be understood as a **preprint** at this moment. This means there could be small or gross errors in it. This research work is under submission process in peer reviewed journals and preprint servers. If the article gets accepted in a peer reviewed journal (or at least reaches a public preprint server), the link below will be updated.

https://github.com/amit7urmc/CombinationsAndPrimes/blob/main/PermutationsCombinationsWhyWholeNumber.pdf

Title: Why a combination, $\Combination{n}{k}$, is always a natural number? Different way to look at the answer accentuates the generation process of factors and prime numbers contained within a particular range of $1$ to $n$.

Abstract: The concept of combination is crucial to layout groundwork for many fundamental sciences, finance and technical domains. Despite this, a direct and rigorous proof about integral nature of combination is comparatively thin in the literature. This article discusses why a combination $\Combination{n}{k}$ will always be a natural number and never a fraction or an irrational number. This article separates an $\Combination{n}{k}$ into selective, mutually exclusive and collectively exhaustive cases and then shows for each case that all the terms in a denominator have a corresponding multiple in the numerator. All $k$ for a particular $n$ (for a $\Combination{n}{k}$) are visualized through plots to gain better understanding. In the context of the plots, this different way of looking at a Combination $\Combination{n}{k}$, gives hindsights into the generation process of factors and prime numbers contained within a particular range of $1$ to $n$
